# TheMealDb Documentation

## Basic Usage

1. Create a new instance of TheMealDb

```Python
the_meal_db = TheMealDb()
```

2. Call the method you want

```Python
json_data = the_meal_db.search_meal_by_name("Arrabiata")
```

3. Use the json_data object

```Python
json_data["meals"]
```

Take care, not all methods respond with an array or the `meals` object

## Methods

The following methods are available:

- search_meal_by_name
- list_all_meals_by_first_letter
- lookup_meal_details_by_id
- lookup_single_random_meal
- lookup_categories

### search_meal_by_name

Search a meal by name

Parameters: name e.g. "Arrabiata"
Returns: { meals: [objects]}

Full return example:
{'meals': [{'idMeal': '52771', 'strMeal': 'Spicy Arrabiata Penne', 'strDrinkAlternate': None, 'strCategory': 'Vegetarian', 'strArea': 'Italian', 'strInstructions': 'Bring a large pot of water to a boil. Add kosher salt to the boiling water, then add the pasta. Cook according to the package instructions, about 9 minutes.\r\nIn a large skillet over medium-high heat, add the olive oil and heat until the oil starts to shimmer. Add the garlic and cook, stirring, until fragrant, 1 to 2 minutes. Add the chopped tomatoes, red chile flakes, Italian seasoning and salt and pepper to taste. Bring to a boil and cook for 5 minutes. Remove from the heat and add the chopped basil.\r\nDrain the pasta and add it to the sauce. Garnish with Parmigiano-Reggiano flakes and more basil and serve warm.', 'strMealThumb': 'https://www.themealdb.com/images/media/meals/ustsqw1468250014.jpg', 'strTags': 'Pasta,Curry', 'strYoutube': 'https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1IszT_guI08', 'strIngredient1': 'penne rigate', 'strIngredient2': 'olive oil', 'strIngredient3': 'garlic', 'strIngredient4': 'chopped tomatoes', 'strIngredient5': 'red chile flakes', 'strIngredient6': 'italian seasoning', 'strIngredient7': 'basil', 'strIngredient8': 'Parmigiano-Reggiano', 'strIngredient9': '', 'strIngredient10': '', 'strIngredient11': '', 'strIngredient12': '', 'strIngredient13': '', 'strIngredient14': '', 'strIngredient15': '', 'strIngredient16': None, 'strIngredient17': None, 'strIngredient18': None, 'strIngredient19': None, 'strIngredient20': None, 'strMeasure1': '1 pound', 'strMeasure2': '1/4 cup', 'strMeasure3': '3 cloves', 'strMeasure4': '1 tin ', 'strMeasure5': '1/2 teaspoon', 'strMeasure6': '1/2 teaspoon', 'strMeasure7': '6 leaves', 'strMeasure8': 'spinkling', 'strMeasure9': '', 'strMeasure10': '', 'strMeasure11': '', 'strMeasure12': '', 'strMeasure13': '', 'strMeasure14': '', 'strMeasure15': '', 'strMeasure16': None, 'strMeasure17': None, 'strMeasure18': None, 'strMeasure19': None, 'strMeasure20': None, 'strSource': None, 'strImageSource': None, 'strCreativeCommonsConfirmed': None, 'dateModified': None}]}

### list_all_meals_by_first_letter

Search a meal by first letter

Parameters: name e.g. "a"
Returns: { meals: [objects]}

Full return example:
{'meals': [{'idMeal': '52768', 'strMeal': 'Apple Frangipan Tart', 'strDrinkAlternate': None, 'strCategory': 'Dessert', 'strArea': 'British', 'strInstructions': 'Preheat the oven to 200C/180C Fan/Gas 6.\r\nPut the biscuits in a large re-sealable freezer bag and bash with a rolling pin into fine crumbs. Melt the butter in a small pan, then add the biscuit crumbs and stir until coated with butter. Tip into the tart tin and, using the back of a spoon, press over the base and sides of the tin to give an even layer. Chill in the fridge while you make the filling.\r\nCream together the butter and sugar until light and fluffy. You can do this in a food processor if you have one. Process for 2-3 minutes. Mix in the eggs, then add the ground almonds and almond extract and blend until well combined.\r\nPeel the apples, and cut thin slices of apple. Do this at the last minute to prevent the apple going brown. Arrange the slices over the biscuit base. Spread the frangipane filling evenly on top. Level the surface and sprinkle with the flaked almonds.\r\nBake for 20-25 minutes until golden-brown and set.\r\nRemove from the oven and leave to cool for 15 minutes. Remove the sides of the tin. An easy way to do this is to stand the tin on a can of beans and push down gently on the edges of the tin.\r\nTransfer the tart, with the tin base attached, to a serving plate. Serve warm with cream, crème fraiche or ice cream.', 'strMealThumb': 'https://www.themealdb.com/images/media/meals/wxywrq1468235067.jpg', 'strTags': 'Tart,Baking,Fruity', 'strYoutube': 'https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp8Slv4INLk', 'strIngredient1': 'digestive biscuits', 'strIngredient2': 'butter', 'strIngredient3': 'Bramley apples', 'strIngredient4': 'butter, softened', 'strIngredient5': 'caster sugar', 'strIngredient6': 'free-range eggs, beaten', 'strIngredient7': 'ground almonds', 'strIngredient8': 'almond extract', 'strIngredient9': 'flaked almonds', 'strIngredient10': '', 'strIngredient11': '', 'strIngredient12': '', 'strIngredient13': '', 'strIngredient14': '', 'strIngredient15': '', 'strIngredient16': None, 'strIngredient17': None, 'strIngredient18': None, 'strIngredient19': None, 'strIngredient20': None, 'strMeasure1': '175g/6oz', 'strMeasure2': '75g/3oz', 'strMeasure3': '200g/7oz', 'strMeasure4': '75g/3oz', 'strMeasure5': '75g/3oz', 'strMeasure6': '2', 'strMeasure7': '75g/3oz', 'strMeasure8': '1 tsp', 'strMeasure9': '50g/1¾oz', 'strMeasure10': '', 'strMeasure11': '', 'strMeasure12': '', 'strMeasure13': '', 'strMeasure14': '', 'strMeasure15': '', 'strMeasure16': None, 'strMeasure17': None, 'strMeasure18': None, 'strMeasure19': None, 'strMeasure20': None, 'strSource': None, 'strImageSource': None, 'strCreativeCommonsConfirmed': None, 'dateModified': None}, {'idMeal': '52893', 'strMeal': 'Apple & Blackberry Crumble', 'strDrinkAlternate': None, 'strCategory': 'Dessert', 'strArea': 'British', 'strInstructions': 'Heat oven to 190C/170C fan/gas 5. Tip the flour and sugar into a large bowl. Add the butter, then rub into the flour using your fingertips to make a light breadcrumb texture. Do not overwork it or the crumble will become heavy. Sprinkle the mixture evenly over a baking sheet and bake for 15 mins or until lightly coloured.\r\nMeanwhile, for the compote, peel, core and cut the apples into 2cm dice. Put the butter and sugar in a medium saucepan and melt together over a medium heat. Cook for 3 mins until the mixture turns to a light caramel. Stir in the apples and cook for 3 mins. Add the blackberries and cinnamon, and cook for 3 mins more. Cover, remove from the heat, then leave for 2-3 mins to continue cooking in the warmth of the pan.\r\nTo serve, spoon the warm fruit into an ovenproof gratin dish, top with the crumble mix, then reheat in the oven for 5-10 mins. Serve with vanilla ice cream.', 'strMealThumb': 'https://www.themealdb.com/images/media/meals/xvsurr1511719182.jpg', 'strTags': 'Pudding', 'strYoutube': 'https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4vhcOwVBDO4', 'strIngredient1': 'Plain Flour', 'strIngredient2': 'Caster Sugar', 'strIngredient3': 'Butter', 'strIngredient4': 'Braeburn Apples', 'strIngredient5': 'Butter', 'strIngredient6': 'Demerara Sugar', 'strIngredient7': 'Blackberrys', 'strIngredient8': 'Cinnamon', 'strIngredient9': 'Ice Cream', 'strIngredient10': '', 'strIngredient11': '', 'strIngredient12': '', 'strIngredient13': '', 'strIngredient14': '', 'strIngredient15': '', 'strIngredient16': '', 'strIngredient17': '', 'strIngredient18': '', 'strIngredient19': '', 'strIngredient20': '', 'strMeasure1': '120g', 'strMeasure2': '60g', 'strMeasure3': '60g', 'strMeasure4': '300g', 'strMeasure5': '30g', 'strMeasure6': '30g', 'strMeasure7': '120g', 'strMeasure8': '¼ teaspoon', 'strMeasure9': 'to serve', 'strMeasure10': '', 'strMeasure11': '', 'strMeasure12': '', 'strMeasure13': '', 'strMeasure14': '', 'strMeasure15': '', 'strMeasure16': '', 'strMeasure17': '', 'strMeasure18': '', 'strMeasure19': '', 'strMeasure20': '', 'strSource': 'https://www.bbcgoodfood.com/recipes/778642/apple-and-blackberry-crumble', 'strImageSource': None, 'strCreativeCommonsConfirmed': None, 'dateModified': None}, {'idMeal': '53049', 'strMeal': 'Apam balik', 'strDrinkAlternate': None, 'strCategory': 'Dessert', 'strArea': 'Malaysian', 'strInstructions': 'Mix milk, oil and egg together. Sift flour, baking powder and salt into the mixture. Stir well until all ingredients are combined evenly.\r\n\r\nSpread some batter onto the pan. Spread a thin layer of batter to the side of the pan. Cover the pan for 30-60 seconds until small air bubbles appear.\r\n\r\nAdd butter, cream corn, crushed peanuts and sugar onto the pancake. Fold the pancake into half once the bottom surface is browned.\r\n\r\nCut into wedges and best eaten when it is warm.', 'strMealThumb': 'https://www.themealdb.com/images/media/meals/adxcbq1619787919.jpg', 'strTags': None, 'strYoutube': 'https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6R8ffRRJcrg', 'strIngredient1': 'Milk', 'strIngredient2': 'Oil', 'strIngredient3': 'Eggs', 'strIngredient4': 'Flour', 'strIngredient5': 'Baking Powder', 'strIngredient6': 'Salt', 'strIngredient7': 'Unsalted Butter', 'strIngredient8': 'Sugar', 'strIngredient9': 'Peanut Butter', 'strIngredient10': '', 'strIngredient11': '', 'strIngredient12': '', 'strIngredient13': '', 'strIngredient14': '', 'strIngredient15': '', 'strIngredient16': '', 'strIngredient17': '', 'strIngredient18': '', 'strIngredient19': '', 'strIngredient20': '', 'strMeasure1': '200ml', 'strMeasure2': '60ml', 'strMeasure3': '2', 'strMeasure4': '1600g', 'strMeasure5': '3 tsp', 'strMeasure6': '1/2 tsp', 'strMeasure7': '25g', 'strMeasure8': '45g', 'strMeasure9': '3 tbs', 'strMeasure10': ' ', 'strMeasure11': ' ', 'strMeasure12': ' ', 'strMeasure13': ' ', 'strMeasure14': ' ', 'strMeasure15': ' ', 'strMeasure16': ' ', 'strMeasure17': ' ', 'strMeasure18': ' ', 'strMeasure19': ' ', 'strMeasure20': ' ', 'strSource': 'https://www.nyonyacooking.com/recipes/apam-balik~SJ5WuvsDf9WQ', 'strImageSource': None, 'strCreativeCommonsConfirmed': None, 'dateModified': None}, {'idMeal': '53050', 'strMeal': 'Ayam Percik', 'strDrinkAlternate': None, 'strCategory': 'Chicken', 'strArea': 'Malaysian', 'strInstructions': "In a blender, add the ingredients for the spice paste and blend until smooth.\r\nOver medium heat, pour the spice paste in a skillet or pan and fry for 10 minutes until fragrant. Add water or oil 1 tablespoon at a time if the paste becomes too dry. Don't burn the paste. Lower the fire slightly if needed.\r\nAdd the cloves, cardamom, tamarind pulp, coconut milk, water, sugar and salt. Turn the heat up and bring the mixture to boil. Turn the heat to medium low and simmer for 10 minutes. Stir occasionally. It will reduce slightly. This is the marinade/sauce, so taste and adjust seasoning if necessary. Don't worry if it's slightly bitter. It will go away when roasting.\r\nWhen the marinade/sauce has cooled, pour everything over the chicken and marinate overnight to two days.\r\nPreheat the oven to 425 F.\r\nRemove the chicken from the marinade. Spoon the marinade onto a greased (or aluminum lined) baking sheet. Lay the chicken on top of the sauce (make sure the chicken covers the sauce and the sauce isn't exposed or it'll burn) and spread the remaining marinade on the chicken. Roast for 35-45 minutes or until internal temp of the thickest part of chicken is at least 175 F.\r\nLet chicken rest for 5 minutes. Brush the chicken with some of the oil. Serve chicken with the sauce over steamed rice (or coconut rice).", 'strMealThumb': 'https://www.themealdb.com/images/media/meals/020z181619788503.jpg', 'strTags': None, 'strYoutube': 'https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9ytR28QK6I8', 'strIngredient1': 'Chicken Thighs', 'strIngredient2': 'Challots', 'strIngredient3': 'Ginger', 'strIngredient4': 'Garlic Clove', 'strIngredient5': 'Cayenne Pepper', 'strIngredient6': 'Turmeric', 'strIngredient7': 'Cumin', 'strIngredient8': 'Coriander', 'strIngredient9': 'Fennel', 'strIngredient10': 'Tamarind Paste', 'strIngredient11': 'Coconut Milk', 'strIngredient12': 'Sugar', 'strIngredient13': 'Water', 'strIngredient14': '', 'strIngredient15': '', 'strIngredient16': '', 'strIngredient17': '', 'strIngredient18': '', 'strIngredient19': '', 'strIngredient20': '', 'strMeasure1': '6', 'strMeasure2': '16', 'strMeasure3': '1 1/2 ', 'strMeasure4': '6', 'strMeasure5': '8', 'strMeasure6': '2 tbs', 'strMeasure7': '1 1/2 ', 'strMeasure8': '1 1/2 ', 'strMeasure9': '1 1/2 ', 'strMeasure10': '2 tbs', 'strMeasure11': '1 can ', 'strMeasure12': '1 tsp ', 'strMeasure13': '1 cup ', 'strMeasure14': ' ', 'strMeasure15': ' ', 'strMeasure16': ' ', 'strMeasure17': ' ', 'strMeasure18': ' ', 'strMeasure19': ' ', 'strMeasure20': ' ', 'strSource': 'http://www.curiousnut.com/roasted-spiced-chicken-ayam-percik/', 'strImageSource': None, 'strCreativeCommonsConfirmed': None, 'dateModified': None}]}

### lookup_meal_details_by_id

Search a meal by id

Parameters: name e.g. 52772
Returns: { meals: [objects]}

Full return example:
{'meals': [{'idMeal': '52772', 'strMeal': 'Teriyaki Chicken Casserole', 'strDrinkAlternate': None, 'strCategory': 'Chicken', 'strArea': 'Japanese', 'strInstructions': 'Preheat oven to 350° F. Spray a 9x13-inch baking pan with non-stick spray.\r\nCombine soy sauce, ½ cup water, brown sugar, ginger and garlic in a small saucepan and cover. Bring to a boil over medium heat. Remove lid and cook for one minute once boiling.\r\nMeanwhile, stir together the corn starch and 2 tablespoons of water in a separate dish until smooth. Once sauce is boiling, add mixture to the saucepan and stir to combine. Cook until the sauce starts to thicken then remove from heat.\r\nPlace the chicken breasts in the prepared pan. Pour one cup of the sauce over top of chicken. Place chicken in oven and bake 35 minutes or until cooked through. Remove from oven and shred chicken in the dish using two forks.\r\n*Meanwhile, steam or cook the vegetables according to package directions.\r\nAdd the cooked vegetables and rice to the casserole dish with the chicken. Add most of the remaining sauce, reserving a bit to drizzle over the top when serving. Gently toss everything together in the casserole dish until combined. Return to oven and cook 15 minutes. Remove from oven and let stand 5 minutes before serving. Drizzle each serving with remaining sauce. Enjoy!', 'strMealThumb': 'https://www.themealdb.com/images/media/meals/wvpsxx1468256321.jpg', 'strTags': 'Meat,Casserole', 'strYoutube': 'https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4aZr5hZXP_s', 'strIngredient1': 'soy sauce', 'strIngredient2': 'water', 'strIngredient3': 'brown sugar', 'strIngredient4': 'ground ginger', 'strIngredient5': 'minced garlic', 'strIngredient6': 'cornstarch', 'strIngredient7': 'chicken breasts', 'strIngredient8': 'stir-fry vegetables', 'strIngredient9': 'brown rice', 'strIngredient10': '', 'strIngredient11': '', 'strIngredient12': '', 'strIngredient13': '', 'strIngredient14': '', 'strIngredient15': '', 'strIngredient16': None, 'strIngredient17': None, 'strIngredient18': None, 'strIngredient19': None, 'strIngredient20': None, 'strMeasure1': '3/4 cup', 'strMeasure2': '1/2 cup', 'strMeasure3': '1/4 cup', 'strMeasure4': '1/2 teaspoon', 'strMeasure5': '1/2 teaspoon', 'strMeasure6': '4 Tablespoons', 'strMeasure7': '2', 'strMeasure8': '1 (12 oz.)', 'strMeasure9': '3 cups', 'strMeasure10': '', 'strMeasure11': '', 'strMeasure12': '', 'strMeasure13': '', 'strMeasure14': '', 'strMeasure15': '', 'strMeasure16': None, 'strMeasure17': None, 'strMeasure18': None, 'strMeasure19': None, 'strMeasure20': None, 'strSource': None, 'strImageSource': None, 'strCreativeCommonsConfirmed': None, 'dateModified': None}]}

### lookup_single_random_meal

Find a single random meal

Parameters: None
Returns: { meals: [objects]}

Full retrurn example:
{'meals': [{'idMeal': '52905', 'strMeal': 'Chocolate Souffle', 'strDrinkAlternate': None, 'strCategory': 'Dessert', 'strArea': 'French', 'strInstructions': 'Heat oven to 220C/fan 200C/gas 7 and place a baking tray on the top shelf. For the sauce, heat the cream and sugar until boiling. Remove from the heat, stir in the chocolate and butter until melted, then keep warm.\r\nBrush 6 x 150ml ramekins with melted butter, sprinkle with the 2 tbsp caster sugar, then tip out any excess. Melt the chocolate and cream in a bowl over a pan of simmering water, cool, then mix in the egg yolks. Whisk the egg whites until they hold their shape, then add the sugar, 1 tbsp at a time, whisking back to the same consistency. Mix a spoonful into the chocolate, then gently fold in the rest.\r\nWorking quickly, fill the ramekins, wipe the rims clean and run your thumb around the edges. Turn oven down to 200C/fan 180C/gas 6, place the ramekins onto the baking tray, then bake for 8-10 mins until risen with a slight wobble. Don’t open the oven door too early as this may make them collapse.\r\nOnce the soufflés are ready, dust with icing sugar, scoop a small hole from their tops, then pour in some of the hot chocolate sauce. Replace the lids and serve straight away.', 'strMealThumb': 'https://www.themealdb.com/images/media/meals/twspvx1511784937.jpg', 'strTags': 'DinnerParty,Desert,Pudding,Chocolate', 'strYoutube': 'https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FWqfkUEWOTg', 'strIngredient1': 'Single Cream', 'strIngredient2': 'Caster Sugar', 'strIngredient3': 'Dark Chocolate', 'strIngredient4': 'Butter', 'strIngredient5': 'Butter', 'strIngredient6': 'Caster Sugar', 'strIngredient7': 'Dark Chocolate', 'strIngredient8': 'Double Cream', 'strIngredient9': 'Egg Yolks', 'strIngredient10': 'Egg White', 'strIngredient11': 'Double Cream', 'strIngredient12': 'Icing Sugar', 'strIngredient13': '', 'strIngredient14': '', 'strIngredient15': '', 'strIngredient16': '', 'strIngredient17': '', 'strIngredient18': '', 'strIngredient19': '', 'strIngredient20': '', 'strMeasure1': '142ml', 'strMeasure2': '25g', 'strMeasure3': '100g ', 'strMeasure4': '25g', 'strMeasure5': 'drizzle', 'strMeasure6': '50g', 'strMeasure7': '175g', 'strMeasure8': '2 tbs', 'strMeasure9': '4', 'strMeasure10': '5', 'strMeasure11': '2 tbs', 'strMeasure12': 'to serve', 'strMeasure13': '', 'strMeasure14': '', 'strMeasure15': '', 'strMeasure16': '', 'strMeasure17': '', 'strMeasure18': '', 'strMeasure19': '', 'strMeasure20': '', 'strSource': 'https://www.bbcgoodfood.com/recipes/5816/hot-chocolate-souffls-with-chocolate-cream-sauce', 'strImageSource': None, 'strCreativeCommonsConfirmed': None, 'dateModified': None}]}

### lookup_categories

Lookup all categories

Parameters: None
Returns: { categories: [objects]}

Full return example:
{'categories': [{'idCategory': '1', 'strCategory': 'Beef', 'strCategoryThumb': 'https://www.themealdb.com/images/category/beef.png', 'strCategoryDescription': 'Beef is the culinary name for meat from cattle, particularly skeletal muscle. Humans have been eating beef since prehistoric times.[1] Beef is a source of high-quality protein and essential nutrients.[2]'}, {'idCategory': '2', 'strCategory': 'Chicken', 'strCategoryThumb': 'https://www.themealdb.com/images/category/chicken.png', 'strCategoryDescription': 'Chicken is a type of domesticated fowl, a subspecies of the red junglefowl. It is one of the most common and widespread domestic animals, with a total population of more than 19 billion as of 2011.[1] Humans commonly keep chickens as a source of food (consuming both their meat and eggs) and, more rarely, as pets.'}, {'idCategory': '3', 'strCategory': 'Dessert', 'strCategoryThumb': 'https://www.themealdb.com/images/category/dessert.png', 'strCategoryDescription': 'Dessert is a course that concludes a meal. The course usually consists of sweet foods, such as confections dishes or fruit, and possibly a beverage such as dessert wine or liqueur, however in the United States it may include coffee, cheeses, nuts, or other savory items regarded as a separate course elsewhere. In some parts of the world, such as much of central and western Africa, and most parts of China, there is no tradition of a dessert course to conclude a meal.\r\n\r\nThe term dessert can apply to many confections, such as biscuits, cakes, cookies, custards, gelatins, ice creams, pastries, pies, puddings, and sweet soups, and tarts. Fruit is also commonly found in dessert courses because of its naturally occurring sweetness. Some cultures sweeten foods that are more commonly savory to create desserts.'}, {'idCategory': '4', 'strCategory': 'Lamb', 'strCategoryThumb': 'https://www.themealdb.com/images/category/lamb.png', 'strCategoryDescription': 'Lamb, hogget, and mutton are the meat of domestic sheep (species Ovis aries) at different ages.\r\n\r\nA sheep in its first year is called a lamb, and its meat is also called lamb. The meat of a juvenile sheep older than one year is hogget; outside the USA this is also a term for the living animal. The meat of an adult sheep is mutton, a term only used for the meat, not the living animals. The term mutton is almost always used to refer to goat meat in the Indian subcontinent.\r\n\r\n'}, {'idCategory': '5', 'strCategory': 'Miscellaneous', 'strCategoryThumb': 'https://www.themealdb.com/images/category/miscellaneous.png', 'strCategoryDescription': "General foods that don't fit into another category"}, {'idCategory': '6', 'strCategory': 'Pasta', 'strCategoryThumb': 'https://www.themealdb.com/images/category/pasta.png', 'strCategoryDescription': 'Pasta is a staple food of traditional Italian cuisine, with the first reference dating to 1154 in Sicily.\r\n\r\nAlso commonly used to refer to the variety of pasta dishes, pasta is typically a noodle made from an unleavened dough of a durum wheat flour mixed with water or eggs and formed into sheets or various shapes, then cooked by boiling or baking. As an alternative for those wanting a different taste, or who need to avoid products containing gluten, some pastas can be made using rice flour in place of wheat.[3][4] Pastas may be divided into two broad categories, dried (pasta secca) and fresh (pasta fresca).'}, {'idCategory': '7', 'strCategory': 'Pork', 'strCategoryThumb': 'https://www.themealdb.com/images/category/pork.png', 'strCategoryDescription': 'Pork is the culinary name for meat from a domestic pig (Sus scrofa domesticus). It is the most commonly consumed meat worldwide,[1] with evidence of pig husbandry dating back to 5000 BC. Pork is eaten both freshly cooked and preserved. Curing extends the shelf life of the pork products. Ham, smoked pork, gammon, bacon and sausage are examples of preserved pork. Charcuterie is the branch of cooking devoted to prepared meat products, many from pork.\r\n\r\nPork is the most popular meat in Eastern and Southeastern Asia, and is also very common in the Western world, especially in Central Europe. It is highly prized in Asian cuisines for its fat content and pleasant texture. Consumption of pork is forbidden by Jewish and Muslim dietary law, a taboo that is deeply rooted in tradition, with several suggested possible causes. The sale of pork is limited in Israel and illegal in certain Muslim countries.'}, {'idCategory': '8', 'strCategory': 'Seafood', 'strCategoryThumb': 'https://www.themealdb.com/images/category/seafood.png', 'strCategoryDescription': 'Seafood is any form of sea life regarded as food by humans. Seafood prominently includes fish and shellfish. Shellfish include various species of molluscs, crustaceans, and echinoderms. Historically, sea mammals such as whales and dolphins have been consumed as food, though that happens to a lesser extent in modern times. Edible sea plants, such as some seaweeds and microalgae, are widely eaten as seafood around the world, especially in Asia (see the category of sea vegetables). In North America, although not generally in the United Kingdom, the term "seafood" is extended to fresh water organisms eaten by humans, so all edible aquatic life may be referred to as seafood. For the sake of completeness, this article includes all edible aquatic life.'}, {'idCategory': '9', 'strCategory': 'Side', 'strCategoryThumb': 'https://www.themealdb.com/images/category/side.png', 'strCategoryDescription': 'A side dish, sometimes referred to as a side order, side item, or simply a side, is a food item that accompanies the entrée or main course at a meal. Side dishes such as salad, potatoes and bread are commonly used with main courses throughout many countries of the western world. New side orders introduced within the past decade[citation needed], such as rice and couscous, have grown to be quite popular throughout Europe, especially at formal occasions (with couscous appearing more commonly at dinner parties with Middle Eastern dishes).'}, {'idCategory': '10', 'strCategory': 'Starter', 'strCategoryThumb': 'https://www.themealdb.com/images/category/starter.png', 'strCategoryDescription': 'An entrée in modern French table service and that of much of the English-speaking world (apart from the United States and parts of Canada) is a dish served before the main course of a meal; it may be the first dish served, or it may follow a soup or other small dish or dishes. In the United States and parts of Canada, an entrée is the main dish or the only dish of a meal.\r\n\r\nHistorically, the entrée was one of the stages of the “Classical Order” of formal French table service of the 18th and 19th centuries. It formed a part of the “first service” of the meal, which consisted of potage, hors d’œuvre, and entrée (including the bouilli and relevé). The “second service” consisted of roast (rôti), salad, and entremets (the entremets sometimes being separated into a “third service” of their own). The final service consisted only of dessert.[3]:3–11 :13–25'}, {'idCategory': '11', 'strCategory': 'Vegan', 'strCategoryThumb': 'https://www.themealdb.com/images/category/vegan.png', 'strCategoryDescription': 'Veganism is both the practice of abstaining from the use of animal products, particularly in diet, and an associated philosophy that rejects the commodity status of animals.[b] A follower of either the diet or the philosophy is known as a vegan (pronounced /ˈviːɡən/ VEE-gən). Distinctions are sometimes made between several categories of veganism. Dietary vegans (or strict vegetarians) refrain from consuming animal products, not only meat but also eggs, dairy products and other animal-derived substances.[c] The term ethical vegan is often applied to those who not only follow a vegan diet but extend the philosophy into other areas of their lives, and oppose the use of animals for any purpose.[d] Another term is environmental veganism, which refers to the avoidance of animal products on the premise that the harvesting or industrial farming of animals is environmentally damaging and unsustainable.'}, {'idCategory': '12', 'strCategory': 'Vegetarian', 'strCategoryThumb': 'https://www.themealdb.com/images/category/vegetarian.png', 'strCategoryDescription': 'Vegetarianism is the practice of abstaining from the consumption of meat (red meat, poultry, seafood, and the flesh of any other animal), and may also include abstention from by-products of animal slaughter.\r\n\r\nVegetarianism may be adopted for various reasons. Many people object to eating meat out of respect for sentient life. Such ethical motivations have been codified under various religious beliefs, as well as animal rights advocacy. Other motivations for vegetarianism are health-related, political, environmental, cultural, aesthetic, economic, or personal preference. There are variations of the diet as well: an ovo-lacto vegetarian diet includes both eggs and dairy products, an ovo-vegetarian diet includes eggs but not dairy products, and a lacto-vegetarian diet includes dairy products but not eggs. A vegan diet excludes all animal products, including eggs and dairy. Some vegans also avoid other animal products such as beeswax, leather or silk clothing, and goose-fat shoe polish.'}, {'idCategory': '13', 'strCategory': 'Breakfast', 'strCategoryThumb': 'https://www.themealdb.com/images/category/breakfast.png', 'strCategoryDescription': 'Breakfast is the first meal of a day. The word in English refers to breaking the fasting period of the previous night. There is a strong likelihood for one or more "typical", or "traditional", breakfast menus to exist in most places, but their composition varies widely from place to place, and has varied over time, so that globally a very wide range of preparations and ingredients are now associated with breakfast.'}, {'idCategory': '14', 'strCategory': 'Goat', 'strCategoryThumb': 'https://www.themealdb.com/images/category/goat.png', 'strCategoryDescription': 'The domestic goat or simply goat (Capra aegagrus hircus) is a subspecies of C. aegagrus domesticated from the wild goat of Southwest Asia and Eastern Europe. The goat is a member of the animal family Bovidae and the subfamily Caprinae, meaning it is closely related to the sheep. There are over 300 distinct breeds of goat. Goats are one of the oldest domesticated species of animal, and have been used for milk, meat, fur and skins across much of the world. Milk from goats is often turned into goat cheese.'}]}
